BYOC public preview docs for Azure/AWS/GCP (#23182)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/byoc-aws-deployment.md

---
title: Prepare a CockroachDB Cloud BYOC Deployment in Amazon Web Services

> summary: Prepare a cloud service account to self-host a CockroachDB Cloud deployment with the BYOC model

Reviewer: "self-host a CockroachDB Cloud deployment with the BYOC model" this is very confusing, also its definitely not a SH Cloud deployment. Can we either just say prepare a service account for CockroachDB BYOC or service account that enables your Cloud account to support the  BYOC model...?

Author: Simplified this with "Prepare a `name of platform` account to host a BYOC deployment of CockroachDB" for each page

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The BYOC {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment option is currently in [Preview]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.md %}).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Prerequisites

{% include cockroachcloud/byoc/byoc-common-prerequisites.md %}

## Step 1. Create a new AWS account

Provision a new AWS account with no existing infrastructure, dedicated to your Cockroach {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment. The account configuration for BYOC requires you to grant Cockroach Labs permissions to access and modify resources in this account, so this step is necessary to isolate these permissions from non-Cockroach Cloud resources. This account can be reused for multiple CockroachDB clusters.

## Step 2. Record your intermediate role's ARN

Cockroach Labs uses an intermediate **IAM role** to provision and manage resources in your AWS account. In this step, use your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} organization label to determine the **Amazon Resource Name (ARN)** of this IAM role.

> Find your org label in the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console or by using the `/v1/organization` endpoint of the [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} API](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1.html#get-/api/v1/organization) with a `GET` request similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: > Find your org label

I don't think we should rely on the structure of this IAM string. The template you show below is how it will look today but I think we should encourage them to just get the entire IAM identifier string from the API response in case we change the format later.

Author: Reworked this step to have the reader collect the ARN with the cloud API. Which also means I needed to make the cloud API setup prerequisite non-optional for AWS.

If we think users will bristle at being told they need to use the API just for this step, we should surface the ARN in the Console somewhere for easy reference.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request GET \
  --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/organization \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer {secret_key}'
~~~

Record the ARN of your organization's intermediate IAM role using the following schema:

~~~ text
arn:aws:iam::<AWS Account ID>:user/byoc/CockroachDB-Cloud-managed-BYOC_<org-label>
~~~

For example, if your organization’s org label is `org-32222` then record your ARN as follows:
~~~
arn:aws:iam::<AWS Account ID>:user/byoc/CockroachDB-Cloud-managed-BYOC_org-32222
~~~

## Step 3. Create IAM role for Cockroach Labs access

Follow these steps to create the intermediate IAM role and grant the necessary permissions:

1. Open the AWS IAM console.

> 1. Create a new role. This name is arbitrary, in these instructions the role is named `CRLBYOCAdmin`.

Reviewer: What does it mean to say the name is arbitrary and also that its called CRLBYOCAdmin? Should we clarify that the user can call it whatever they want?

Author: Clarified with "This name is arbitrary and can be named whatever you want. In these instructions the example role is named `CRLBYOCAdmin`."

---
title: Prepare a CockroachDB Cloud BYOC Deployment in Amazon Web Services
summary: Prepare an Amazon Web Services account to host a BYOC deployment of CockroachDB
toc: true
keywords: deployment, byoc
---

This page describes how to prepare a cloud service account to host a [BYOC deployment]({% link cockroachcloud/byoc-overview.md %}) of CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} {{ site.data.products.advanced }} in Amazon Web Services (AWS).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> The BYOC {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment option is currently in [Preview]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.md %}).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{% include feature-phases/preview.md %}
```
Might as well just use the existing callout

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Prerequisites

{% include cockroachcloud/byoc/byoc-common-prerequisites.md %}

- Create an [API service account]({% link cockroachcloud/managing-access.md %}#create-api-keys) to use the [{{ site.data.products.cloud }} API]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}) with your {{ site.data.products.cloud }} organization.

## Step 1. Create a new AWS account

> Provision a new AWS account with no existing infrastructure, dedicated to your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment. The account configuration for BYOC requires you to grant Cockroach Labs permissions to access and modify resources in this account, so this step is necessary to isolate these permissions from non-CockroachDB Cloud resources. This account can be reused for multiple CockroachDB clusters.

Reviewer 4: > This account can be reused for multiple CockroachDB clusters.

Can we leave this out for now until we fully release this functionality.

> Provision a new AWS account with no existing infrastructure, dedicated to your Cockroach {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment. The account configuration for BYOC requires you to grant Cockroach Labs permissions to access and modify resources in this account, so this step is necessary to isolate these permissions from non-Cockroach Cloud resources. This account can be reused for multiple CockroachDB clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Provision a new AWS account with no existing infrastructure, dedicated to your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment. The account configuration for BYOC requires you to grant Cockroach Labs permissions to access and modify resources in this account, so this step is necessary to isolate these permissions from non-CockroachDB Cloud resources. This account can be reused for multiple CockroachDB clusters.
```

Pretty sure it's always supposed to be "CockroachDB Cloud"

- An intermediary IAM role in your AWS account which must be granted permissions to create and manage infrastructure. This IAM role is the target used by Cockroach Labs for cross-account management.

In this step, use the [{{ site.data.products.cloud }} API]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}) to get the **Amazon Resource Name (ARN)** of the IAM role provisioned by Cockroach Labs for your account.

Send a `GET` request to the `/v1/organization` endpoint of the [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} API](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1.html#get-/api/v1/organization) similar to the following example:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request GET \
  --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/organization \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer {secret_key}'
~~~

Record the value of `cockroach_cloud_service_principals.aws.user_arn` in the response:

~~~ json
{
  "cockroach_cloud_service_principals": {
    "aws": {
      "user_arn": "arn:aws:iam::{AWS Account ID}:example/arn"
    }
  }
}
~~~

## Step 3. Create intermediary IAM role and apply permissions

> In this step, create the intermediary IAM role in your AWS account and apply a trust relationship policy and permissions that allows Cockroach Labs to assume the intermediary role as needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this step, create the intermediary IAM role in your AWS account, then apply a trust relationship policy and permissions that allow Cockroach Labs to assume the intermediary role as needed.
```

Follow these steps to create the intermediate IAM role:

1. Open the AWS IAM console.

> 1. Create a new role. This name is arbitrary and can be named whatever you want. In these instructions the example role is named `CRLBYOCAdmin`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a new role. You can choose any name for this role. In these instructions the example role is named `CRLBYOCAdmin`.
```

    "iam:DeleteRolePolicy",
    "iam:DeleteUser",
    "iam:DeleteUserPolicy",
    "iam:DetachRolePolicy",
    "iam:DetachUserPolicy",
    "iam:Get*",
    "iam:List*",
    "iam:PassRole",
    "iam:PutRolePolicy",
    "iam:PutUserPolicy",
    "iam:RemoveRoleFromInstanceProfile",
    "iam:TagPolicy",

    // Kafka permissions
    "kafka:List*",

    // CloudWatch Logs permissions
    "logs:CreateLogGroup",
    "logs:DeleteLogGroup",
    "logs:Describe*",
    "logs:Get*",
    "logs:List*",
    "logs:PutRetentionPolicy",
    "logs:PutSubscriptionFilter",

    // S3 permissions
    "s3:CreateBucket",
    "s3:DeleteBucketPolicy",
    "s3:Describe*",
    "s3:Get*",
    "s3:List*",
    "s3:PutBucketTagging",
    "s3:PutEncryptionConfiguration",
    "s3:PutLifecycleConfiguration",

    // Service Quotas permissions
    "servicequotas:GetServiceQuota",
    ~~~

## Step 4. (Optional) Enable additional regions

If you plan to use non-default AWS regions, you must manually enable them in the AWS Management Console. You must also activate [global STS tokens](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_temp_region-endpoints.html) for these regions to work with CockroachDB.

> You may also need to adjust quotas for vCPU and EBS disk storage for the regions that you plan to create your cluster in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may also need to adjust quotas for vCPU and EBS disk storage for the regions in which you plan to create your cluster.
```

## Step 5. Create the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} cluster

In BYOC deployments, CockroachDB clusters can be deployed in the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console or with the [{{ site.data.products.cloud }} API]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}).

### Create a cluster with the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console

Follow these steps to create a CockroachDB cluster in the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} console:

> 1. Open the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} and select the organization that has been enabled for BYOC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console and select the organization that has been enabled for BYOC.
```

> 1. Click **Create cluster**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Click **Create cluster**.
```

> 1. Under **Select a plan**, click **{{ site.data.products.advanced }}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Under **Select a plan**, click **{{ site.data.products.advanced }}**.
```

1. Under **Cloud & Regions**, click **Bring Your Own Cloud** and select AWS.

> 1. Under **Cloud account**, click **Select your cloud account > Add new cloud account**. Enter the ARN associated with your intermediate IAM role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Under **Cloud account**, click **Select your cloud account > Add new cloud account**. Enter the ARN collected in Step 2.
```
Idk what the best way of clarifying this is but I found your phrasing a bit confusing, as I thought it was the ARN associated with the initial, Cockroach Labs IAM. I guess it's both? Either way, my suggested phrasing is less ambiguous.

Author: It's actually referring to the ARN of the "intermediate IAM role" that you, the user, created in step 3. Agents are very bad at determining which "step 2" on the page you are referring to in a context like this. Will rewrite slightly to make it more clear

### Create a cluster with the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} API

Send a `POST` request to the the `/v1/clusters` endpoint to [create a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}#create-an-advanced-cluster).

The following example request creates a 3-node {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster in the `us-east-2` region, specifying the ARN associated with your intermediate IAM role:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request POST \
    --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters \
    --header 'Authorization: Bearer {secret_key}' \
    --json '{
      "name": "byoc-aws-cluster-1",
      "provider": "AWS",
      "spec": {
        "dedicated": {
          "hardware": {
            "machine_spec": {"num_virtual_cpus": 4},
            "storage_gib": 16
          },
          "region_nodes": {"us-east-2": 3}
        },
        "plan": "ADVANCED",
        "customer_cloud_account": {
          "aws": {

>             "arn": "arn:aws:iam::<AWS Account ID>:user/byoc/CockroachDB-Cloud-managed-BYOC_<org-label>"

Reviewer 3: This is such a nit but curly brackets for the placeholder would match the pre-existing example w/ placeholders in the Azure file.

Reviewer 3: (this is relevant in a few places)
